Task 1

Quantum computing

What is it? 

Quantum computers are computer that use qubit to compute tasks using quantum principle of entanglement to compute at a much faster rate than an 
regular computer.


What are the possible Social, Moral, Cultural and Ethical benefits of this technology on society?

Quantum computer will most likely drive the AI revolution forwards and can allow for major advancements in medicine.


What are the possible Social, Moral, Cultural and Ethical risks of this technology on society? 

Quantum computer can and will most probably result in the standard of encryption to have to chance to stop and mitigate quantum computer from being
able to easily gain access and information from the government. 


My conclusion on this technology and what it will mean for our world 10 years from now?

For the everyday person it will not mean much as It will most likely not be possible to implement it in a small form factor like phones or laptops
but for the military, intelligence and the advancement of AI it will certainly make a massive difference as it can compute tasks thousands to 
millions of times faster than a regular computer and can easily crack and modern-day encryption in hours instead of thousands of years for a 
regular computer. This can also help massively in the medical field as it can use conjunction with AI to help crack protein structure and the effect 
that certain medicine will cause.



Task 2 

Control Unit – A control unit is part of a CPU and is often referred to as the CU. It primary job is to convert electrical binary signals to timings
and control signals.

Von Neumann Architecture – von Neumann architecture is the idea of how data moves around the CPU for and is used in modern CPU architecture. it’s 
main purpose is to allow the computer to be easy to program as in the 1945 computers where designed for a purpose not coded and made it difficult to
re program computers.

Intermediate Code – it is the data structure that is used in a compiler or virtual machine internally 

Assembly Language – it is a language that is designed and build around the computer architecture and is present on the motherboard, It main purpose
to be able effectively move data around and to be able to perform tasks.

Hashing – hashing is a function that is used to give data a number or something else to associate with it .

Packet Switching – it is the switching of small packets of data across a network 

Register – it is a small but fast access memory for the CPU

Optical Storage – it is a type of storage like CD and blue rays that have a data encoded in a material and using light and lasers to read the data

Device Driver – it is a way for a computer to communicate with peripheral hardware

Machine Code – it is a lower-level code that means that programs can communicate to different hardware

Normalisation - it is a way of organising data in a proper manner to minimise data redundancy 

ASCII – it is a Unicode that allows for printable characters 

Buses - it is the way for components inside of a computer to be able to communicate with each other and is also used between computers

Operating System – An operating system is a system which allows a user to interact to a computer

Compiler - it a special program that turns /translates a programming language into machine language for from python to bits as an example 

Lossy Compression - it is a way of removing small chunks of data to reduce file size without it being noticeable for a human to see / hear and is usually used for jpeg and mp3 files to name a couple.

TCP/IP Stack -  Explains the functionality of how data moves across the internet to your computer from the application layer to the network access layer .

Decomposition - decompression is splitting data for a computer so it can more easily word with the data 


Task 3

essay question: We now rely too much on technology 

I agree to the question in which we rely too much on technology as a failure of all technology-based machines would immediately result in the death
of a large population of the world as power grids failing, supply chains are crumpling, and food is rooting in the fields as one of more obvious 
tragedy and this is only the tip of the iceberg. Thanks’ fully this is one of the most unlikely events to occur, but I do raise many questions 
and one of being what threats to technology is there.

There are many threats to the I.T world and one of the prevalent is the hacking or the unwanted and unlawful access to one's computer usually 
accessing a person’s computer without the owner explicit knowledge again usually to steal one's data and or to cause harm. Ransomware is one of the
biggest dangers to security of many computers. Ransomware is the hacking of computers or computer systems to again access to a computer data and 
to lock it unless money is given. This occurred once with the NHS from a group called WannaCry and caused a large amount of damage not just to the 
NHS but to a lot of personal computers. The best way to deal with Ransome where is to same all your important data on a sperate drive or on the cloud.

Another Threat to the IT systems is the lose of the power grid through a power surge EMP or other means a disabling to the power grid can cause IT 
system to crash. EMPS are very specific and the best way to deal with them is to Power down the grid so that that the EMP doesn’t cause as much 
damage. Power surges can also be disastrous as it can cause motherboards to be damaged to the point of no use and can cause fire. To limit the 
damage, you can use a power supply to make sure the voltage does fluctuate.


The final threat to the IT systems is the fibre optic cables that transfer data across the world. This cable can be destroyed intentionally by
 foreign powers or by commercial shipping. Over 90% of the world’s internet travels through theses cables and the destruction of a large group 
 would be crimpling for the world and especially it’s economy with billions of pounds lost .
